<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>A Man from Lebanon</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="a-man-from-lebanon" epub:type="se:short-story z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Man from Lebanon</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Nineteen Centuries Afterward</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Master, master singer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Master of words unspoken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seven times was I born, and seven times have I died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since your last hasty visit and our brief welcome.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And behold I live again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remembering a day and a night among the hills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When your tide lifted us up.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thereafter many lands and many seas did I cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wherever I was led by saddle or sail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your name was prayer or argument.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men would bless you or curse you;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The curse, a protest against failure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The blessing, a hymn of the hunter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who comes back from the hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With provision for his mate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your friends are yet with us for comfort and support,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And your enemies also, for strength and assurance.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your mother is with us;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have beheld the sheen of her face in the countenance of all mothers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her hand rocks cradles with gentleness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her hand folds shrouds with tenderness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Mary Magdalene is yet in our midst,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She who drank the vinegar of life, and then its wine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Judas, the man of pain and small ambitions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He too walks the earth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even now he preys upon himself when his hunger find naught else,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And seeks his larger self in self-destruction.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And John, he whose youth loved beauty, is here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he sings though unheeded.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Simon Peter the impetuous, who denied you that he might live longer for you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He too sits by our fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He may deny you again ere the dawn of another day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet he would be crucified for your purpose, and deem himself unworthy of the honour.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Caiaphas and Annas still live their day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And judge the guilty and the innocent.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They sleep upon their feathered bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whilst he whom they have judged is whipped with the rods.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the woman who was taken in adultery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She too walks the streets of our cities,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hungers for bread not yet baked,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she is alone in an empty house.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pontius Pilatus is here also:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He stands in awe before you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And still questions you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he dares not risk his station or defy an alien race;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he is still washing his hands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even now Jerusalem holds the basin and Rome the ewer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And betwixt the two thousand thousand hands would be washed to whiteness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Master, Master Poet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Master of words sung and spoken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They have builded temples to house your name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And upon every height they have raised your cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A sign and a symbol to guide their wayward feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But not unto your joy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your joy is a hill beyond their vision,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it does not comfort them.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They would honour the man unknown to them.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And what consolation is there in a man like themselves, a man whose kindliness is like their own kindliness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A god whose love is like their own love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And whose mercy is in their own mercy?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They honour not the man, the living man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The first man who opened His eyes and gazed at the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With eyelids unquivering.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nay, they do not know Him, and they would not be like Him.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They would be unknown, walking in the procession of the unknown.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They would bear sorrow, their sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they would not find comfort in your joy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their aching heart seeks not consolation in your words and the song thereof.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their pain, silent and unshapen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Makes them creatures lonely and unvisited.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though hemmed about by kin and kind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They live in fear, uncomraded;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet they would not be alone.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They would bend eastward when the west wind blows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They call you king,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they would be in your court.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They pronounce you the Messiah,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they would themselves be anointed with the holy oil.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yea, they would live upon your life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Master, Master Singer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your tears were like the showers of May,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And your laughter like the waves of the white sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you spoke, your words were the far-off whisper of their lips when those lips should be kindled with fire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You laughed for the marrow in their bones that was not yet ready for laughter;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you wept for their eyes that yet were dry;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your voice fathered their thoughts and their understanding;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your voice mothered their words and their breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Seven times was I born and seven times have I died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now I live again, and I behold you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fighter among fighters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poet of poets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>King above all kings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A man half-naked with your road-fellows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every day the bishop bends down his head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he pronounces your name;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every day the beggars say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“For Jesus’ sake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give us a penny to buy bread.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We call upon each other,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in truth we call upon you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the flood tide in the spring of our want and desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when our autumn comes, like the ebb tide.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High or low, your name is upon our lips,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Master of infinite compassion.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Master, Master of our lonely hours,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here and there, betwixt the cradle and the coffin, I meet your silent brothers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The free men, unshackled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sons of your mother earth and space.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are like the birds of the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like the lilies of the field.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They live your life and think your thoughts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they echo your song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they are empty-handed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they are not crucified with the great crucifixion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And therein is their pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world crucifies them every day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But only in little ways.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sky is not shaken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the earth travails not with her dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are crucified and there is none to witness their agony.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They turn their face to right and left</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And find not one to promise them a station in his kingdom.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet they would be crucified again and yet again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That your God may be their God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And your Father their Father.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Master, Master Lover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Princess awaits your coming in her fragrant chamber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the married unmarried woman in her cage;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The harlot who seeks bread in the streets of her shame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the nun in her cloister who has no husband;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The childless woman too at her window,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where frost designs the forest on the pane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She finds you in that symmetry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she would mother you, and be comforted.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Master, Master Poet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Master of our silent desires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The heart of the world quivers with the throbbing of your heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it burns not with your song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world sits listening to your voice in tranquil delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it rises not from its seat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To scale the ridges of your hills.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man would dream your dream, but he would not wake to your dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which is his greater dream.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He would see with your vision,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he would not drag his heavy feet to your throne;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet many have been enthroned inn your name</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mitred with your power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And have turned your golden visit</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into crowns for their head and sceptres for their hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Master, Master of Light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose eye dwells in the seeking fingers of the blind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are still despised and mocked,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A man too weak and infirm to be God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A God too much man to call forth adoration.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their mass and their hymn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their sacrament and their rosary, are for their imprisoned self.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are their yet distant self, their far-off cry, and their passion.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Master, Sky-heart, Knight of our fairer dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do still tread this day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor bows nor spears shall stay your steps;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You walk through all our arrows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You smile down upon us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though you are the youngest of us all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You father us all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Poet, Singer, Great Heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May our God bless your name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the womb that held you, and the breasts that gave you milk.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And may God forgive us all.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
