<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="a-rich-levite-in-the-neighbourhood-of-nazareth" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Rich Levite in the Neighbourhood of Nazareth</h2>
			<p>He was a good carpenter. The doors He fashioned were never unlocked by thieves, and the windows he made were always ready to open to the east wind and to the west.</p>
			<p>And He made chests of cedar wood, polished and enduring, and ploughs and pitchforks strong and yielding to the hand.</p>
			<p>And He carved lecterns for our synagogues. He carved them out of the golden mulberry; and on both sides of the support, where the sacred book lies, He chiselled wings outspreading; and under the support, heads of bulls and doves, and large-eyed deer.</p>
			<p>All this He wrought in the manner of the Chaldeans and the Greeks. But there was that in His skill which was neither Chaldean nor Greek.</p>
			<p>Now this my house was builded by many hands thirty years ago. I sought builders and carpenters in all the towns of Galilee. They had each the skill and the art of building, and I was pleased and satisfied with all that they did.</p>
			<p>But come now, and behold two doors and a window that were fashioned by Jesus of Nazareth. They in their stability mock at all else in my house.</p>
			<p>See you not that these two doors are different from all other doors? And this window opening to the east, is it not different from other windows?</p>
			<p>All my doors and windows are yielding to the years save these which He made. They alone stand strong against the elements.</p>
			<p>And see those crossbeams, how he placed them; and these nails, how they are driven from one side of the board, and then caught and fastened so firmly upon the other side.</p>
			<p>And what is passing strange is that that labourer who was worthy the wages of two men received but the wage of one man; and that same labourer now is deemed a prophet in Israel.</p>
			<p>Had I known then that this youth with saw and plane was a prophet, I would have begged Him to speak rather than work, and then I would have overpaid Him for his words.</p>
			<p>And now I still have many men working in my house and fields. How shall I know the man whose own hand is upon his tool, from the man upon whose hand God lays His hand?</p>
			<p>Yea, how shall I know God’s hand?</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
