<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>A Woman, One of Mary’s Neighbours</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="a-woman-one-of-marys-neighbours" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Woman, One of Mary’s Neighbours</h2>
			<p>On the fortieth day after His death, all the women neighbours came to the house of Mary to console her and to sing threnodies.</p>
			<p>And one of the women sang this song:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p>
					<span>Whereto my Spring, whereto?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to what other space your perfume ascending?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In what other fields shall you walk?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to what sky shall you lift up your head to speak your heart?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>These valleys shall be barren,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we shall have naught but dried fields and arid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All green things will parch in the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And our orchards will bring forth sour apples,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And our vineyards bitter grapes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We shall thirst for your wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And our nostrils will long for your fragrance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whereto Flower of our first Spring, whereto?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And will you return no more?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will not your jasmine visit us again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your cyclamen stand by our wayside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tell us that we too have our roots deep in earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that our ceaseless breath would forever climb the sky?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whereto Jesus, whereto,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Son of my neighbour Mary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And comrade to my son?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whither, our first Spring, and to what other fields?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will you return to us again?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will you in your love-tide visit the barren shores of our dreams?</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
