<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Barabbas</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="barabbas" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Barabbas</h2>
			<p>They released me and chose Him. Then He rose and I fell down.</p>
			<p>And they held Him a victim and a sacrifice for the Passover.</p>
			<p>I was freed from my chains, and walked with the throng behind Him, but I was a living man going to my own grave.</p>
			<p>I should have fled to the desert, where shame is burned out by the sun.</p>
			<p>Yet I walked with those who had chosen Him to bear my crime.</p>
			<p>When they nailed Him on His cross I stood there.</p>
			<p>I saw and I heard but I seemed outside of my body.</p>
			<p>The thief who was crucified on His right said to Him: “Are you bleeding with me, even you, Jesus of Nazareth?”</p>
			<p>And Jesus answered and said: “Were it not for this nail that stays my hand I would reach forth and clasp your hand.</p>
			<p>“We are crucified together. Would they had raised your cross nearer to mine.”</p>
			<p>Then He looked down and gazed upon His mother and a young man who stood beside her.</p>
			<p>He said: “Mother, behold your son standing beside you.</p>
			<p>“Woman, behold a man who shall carry these drops of my blood to the North Country.”</p>
			<p>And when he heard the wailing of the women of Galilee He said: “Behold, they weep and I thirst.</p>
			<p>“I am held too high to reach their tears.</p>
			<p>“I will not take vinegar and gall to quench this thirst.”</p>
			<p>Then His eyes opened wide to the sky, and He said: “Father, why hast Thou forsaken us?”</p>
			<p>And then He said in compassion: “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.”</p>
			<p>When He uttered those words methought I saw all men prostrated before God beseeching forgiveness for the crucifixion of this one man.</p>
			<p>Then again He said with a great voice: “Father, into Thy hand I yield back my spirit.”</p>
			<p>And at last He lifted up His head and said: “Now it is finished, but only upon this hill.”</p>
			<p>And He closed His eyes.</p>
			<p>Then lightning cracked the dark skies, and there was a great thunder.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>I know now that those who slew Him in my stead achieved my endless torment.</p>
			<p>His crucifixion endured but for an hour.</p>
			<p>But I shall be crucified unto the end of my years.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
