<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Benjamin the Scribe</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="benjamin-the-scribe" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Benjamin the Scribe</h2>
			<p>It has been said that Jesus was the enemy of Rome and Judea.</p>
			<p>But I say that Jesus was the enemy of no man and no race.</p>
			<p>I have heard Him say: “The birds of the air and the mountain-tops are not mindful of the serpents in their dark holes.</p>
			<p>“Let the dead bury their dead. Be you yourself among the living, and soar high.”</p>
			<p>I was not one of His disciples. I was but one of the many who went after Him to gaze upon His face.</p>
			<p>He looked upon Rome and upon us, who are the slaves of Rome, as a father looks upon his children playing with toys and fighting among themselves for the larger toy. And He laughed from His height.</p>
			<p>He was greater than State and race; He was greater than revolution.</p>
			<p>He was single and alone, and He was an awakening.</p>
			<p>He wept all our unshed tears and smiled all our revolts.</p>
			<p>We knew it was in His power to be born with all who are not yet born, and to bid them see, not with their eyes but with His vision.</p>
			<p>Jesus was the beginning of a new kingdom upon the earth, and that kingdom shall remain.</p>
			<p>He was the son and the grandson of all the kings who builded the kingdom of the spirit.</p>
			<p>And only the kings of spirit have ruled our world.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
