<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Birbàrah of Yammouni</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="birbarah-of-yammouni" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Birbàrah of Yammouni</h2>
			<p>Jesus was patient with the dullard and the stupid, even as the winter awaits the spring.</p>
			<p>He was patient like a mountain in the wind.</p>
			<p>He answered with kindliness the harsh questionings of His foes.</p>
			<p>He could even be silent to cavil and dispute, for He was strong and the strong can be forbearing.</p>
			<p>But Jesus was also impatient.</p>
			<p>He spared not the hypocrite.</p>
			<p>He yielded not to men of cunning nor to the jugglers of words.</p>
			<p>And He would not be governed.</p>
			<p>He was impatient with those who believed not in light because they themselves dwelt in shadow; and with those who sought after signs in the sky rather than in their own hearts.</p>
			<p>He was impatient with those who weighed and measured the day and the night before they would trust their dreams to dawn or eventide.</p>
			<p>Jesus was patient.</p>
			<p>Yet He was the most impatient of men.</p>
			<p>He would have you weave the cloth though you spend years between the loom and the linen.</p>
			<p>But He would have none tear an inch off the woven fabric.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
