<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-45" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>PHUMIAH THE HIGH PRIESTESS OF SIDON</h2>
			<p>
				<em>An Invocation</em>
			</p>
			<p>Take your harps and let me sing.<br/>
			Beat your strings, the silver and the gold;<br/>
			For I would sing the dauntless Man<br/>
			Who slew the dragon of the valley,<br/>
			Then gazed down with pity<br/>
			Upon the thing He had slain.</p>
			<p>Take your harps and sing with me<br/>
			The lofty Oak upon the height,<br/>
			The sky-hearted and the ocean-handed Man,<br/>
			Who kissed the pallid lips of death,<br/>
			Yet quivers now upon the mouth of life.</p>
			<p>Take your harps and let us sing<br/>
			The fearless Hunter on the hill,<br/>
			Who marked the beast, and shot His viewless arrow,<br/>
			And brought the horn and tusk<br/>
			Down to the earth.</p>
			<p>Take your harps and sing with me<br/>
			The valiant Youth who conquered the mountain cities,<br/>
			And the cities of the plain that coiled like serpents in the sand.</p>
			<p>He fought not against pygmies but against gods<br/>
			Who hungered for our flesh and thirsted for our blood.</p>
			<p>And like the first Golden Hawk<br/>
			He would rival only eagles;<br/>
			For His wings were vast and proud<br/>
			And would not outwing the less winged.</p>
			<p>Take your harps and sing with me<br/>
			The joyous song of sea and cliff.<br/>
			The gods are dead,<br/>
			And they are lying still<br/>
			In the forgotten isle of a forgotten sea.<br/>
			And He who slew them sits upon His throne.</p>
			<p>He was but a youth.<br/>
			Spring had not yet given Him full beard,<br/>
			And His summer was still young in His field.</p>
			<p>Take your harps and sing with me<br/>
			The tempest in the forest<br/>
			That breaks the dry branch and the leafless twig,<br/>
			Yet sends the living root to nestle deeper at the breast of earth.</p>
			<p>Take your harps and sing with me<br/>
			The deathless song of our Beloved.<br/>
			Nay, my maidens, stay your hands.<br/>
			Lay by your harps.<br/>
			We cannot sing Him now.<br/>
			The faint whisper of our song cannot reach His tempest,<br/>
			Nor pierce the majesty of His silence.</p>
			<p>Lay by your harps and gather close around me,<br/>
			I would repeat His words to you,<br/>
			And I would tell you of His deeds,<br/>
			For the echo of His voice is deeper than our passion.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
