<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-21" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>SABA OF ANTIOCH</h2>
			<p>
				<em>On Saul of Tarsus</em>
			</p>
			<p>This day I heard Saul of Tarsus preaching the Christ unto the Jews of this city.</p>
			<p>He calls himself Paul now, the apostle to the Gentiles.</p>
			<p>I knew him in my youth, and in those days he persecuted the friends of the Nazarene. Well do I remember his satisfaction when his fellows stoned the radiant youth called Stephen.</p>
			<p>This Paul is indeed a strange man. His souls is not the soul of a free man.</p>
			<p>At times he seems like an animal in the forest, hunted and wounded, seeking a cave wherein he would hide his pain from the world.</p>
			<p>He speaks not of Jesus, nor does he repeat His words. He preaches the Messiah whom the prophets of old had foretold.</p>
			<p>And though he himself is a learned Jew he addresses his fellow Jews in Greek; and his Greek is halting, and he ill chooses his words.</p>
			<p>But he is a man of hidden powers and his presence is affirmed by those who gather around him. And at times he assures them of what he himself is not assured.</p>
			<p>We who knew Jesus and heard his discourses say that He taught man how to break the chains of his bondage that he might be free from his yesterdays.</p>
			<p>But Paul is forging chains for the man of tomorrow. He would strike with his own hammer upon the anvil in the name of one whom he does not know.</p>
			<p>The Nazarene would have us live the hour in passion and ecstasy.</p>
			<p>The man of Tarsus would have us be mindful of laws recorded in the ancient books.</p>
			<p>Jesus gave His breath to the breathless dead. And in my lone nights I believe and I understand.</p>
			<p>When He sat at the board, He told stories that gave happiness to the feasters, and spiced with His joy the meat and the wine.</p>
			<p>But Paul would prescribe our loaf and our cup.</p>
			<p>Suffer me not to turn my eyes the other way.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
