<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-22" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>SALOME TO A WOMAN FRIEND</h2>
<p><em>A Desire Unfulfilled</em></p>
<p>He was like poplars shimmering in the sun;<br />
And like a lake among the lonely hills,<br />
Shining in the sun;<br />
And like snow upon the mountain heights,<br />
White, white in the sun.</p>
<p>Yea, He was like unto all these,<br />
And I loved Him.<br />
Yet I feared His presence.<br />
And my feet would not carry my burden of love<br />
That I might girdle His feet with my arms.</p>
<p>I would have said to Him,<br />
“I have slain your friend in an hour of passion.<br />
Will you forgive me my sin?<br />
And will you not in mercy release my youth<br />
From its blind deed,<br />
That it may walk in your light?”</p>
<p>I know He would have forgiven my dancing<br />
For the saintly head of His friend.<br />
I know He would have seen in me<br />
An object of His own teaching.<br />
For there was no valley of hunger He could not bridge,<br />
And no desert of thirst He could not cross.</p>
<p>Yea, He was even as the poplars,<br />
And as the lakes among the hills,<br />
And like snow upon Lebanon.<br />
And I would have cooled my lips in the folds of His garment.</p>
<p>But He was far from me,<br />
And I was ashamed.<br />
And my mother held me back<br />
When the desire to seek Him was upon me.</p>
<p>Whenever He passed by, my heart ached for his loveliness,<br />
But my mother frowned at Him in contempt,<br />
And would hasten me from the window<br />
To my bedchamber.<br />
And she would cry aloud saying,<br />
“Who is He but another locust-eater from the desert?</p>
<p>What is He but a scoffer and a renegade,<br />
A seditious riot-monger, who would rob us of sceptre and crown,<br />
And bid the foxes and the jackals of His accursed land<br />
Howl in our halls and sit upon our throne?<br />
Go hide your face from this day,<br />
And await the day when His head shall fall down,<br />
But not upon your platter.”</p>
<p>These things my mother said.<br />
But my heart would not keep her words.<br />
I loved Him in secret,<br />
And my sleep was girdled with flames.</p>
<p>He is gone now.<br />
And something that was in me is gone also.<br />
Perhaps it was my youth<br />
That would not tarry here,<br />
Since the God of youth was slain.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
