<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-79" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>A MAN FROM LEBANON</h2>
<p><em>Nineteen Centuries Afterward</em></p>
<p>Master, master singer,</p>
<p>Master of words unspoken,<br />
Seven times was I born, and seven times have I died<br />
Since your last hasty visit and our brief welcome.<br />
And behold I live again,<br />
Remembering a day and a night among the hills,<br />
When your tide lifted us up.<br />
Thereafter many lands and many seas did I cross,<br />
And wherever I was led by saddle or sail<br />
Your name was prayer or argument.<br />
Men would bless you or curse you;<br />
The curse, a protest against failure,<br />
The blessing, a hymn of the hunter<br />
Who comes back from the hills<br />
With provision for his mate.</p>
<p>Your friends are yet with us for comfort and support,<br />
And your enemies also, for strength and assurance.<br />
Your mother is with us;<br />
I have beheld the sheen of her face in the countenance of all mothers;<br />
Her hand rocks cradles with gentleness,<br />
Her hand folds shrouds with tenderness.<br />
And Mary Magdalene is yet in our midst,<br />
She who drank the vinegar of life, and then its wine.<br />
And Judas, the man of pain and small ambitions,<br />
He too walks the earth;<br />
Even now he preys upon himself when his hunger find naught else,<br />
And seeks his larger self in self-destruction.</p>
<p>And John, he whose youth loved beauty, is here,<br />
And he sings though unheeded.<br />
And Simon Peter the impetuous, who denied you that he might live<br />
longer for you,<br />
He too sits by our fire.<br />
He may deny you again ere the dawn of another day,<br />
Yet he would be crucified for your purpose, and deem himself unworthy<br />
of the honour.<br />
And Caiaphas and Annas still live their day,<br />
And judge the guilty and the innocent.<br />
They sleep upon their feathered bed<br />
Whilst he whom they have judged is whipped with the rods.</p>
<p>And the woman who was taken in adultery,<br />
She too walks the streets of our cities,<br />
And hungers for bread not yet baked,<br />
And she is alone in an empty house.<br />
And Pontius Pilatus is here also:<br />
He stands in awe before you,<br />
And still questions you,<br />
But he dares not risk his station or defy an alien race;<br />
And he is still washing his hands.<br />
Even now Jerusalem holds the basin and Rome the ewer,<br />
And betwixt the two thousand thousand hands would be washed to<br />
whiteness.</p>
<p>Master, Master Poet,<br />
Master of words sung and spoken,<br />
They have builded temples to house your name,<br />
And upon every height they have raised your cross,<br />
A sign and a symbol to guide their wayward feet,<br />
But not unto your joy.<br />
Your joy is a hill beyond their vision,<br />
And it does not comfort them.<br />
They would honour the man unknown to them.<br />
And what consolation is there in a man like themselves, a man whose<br />
kindliness is like their own kindliness,<br />
A god whose love is like their own love,<br />
And whose mercy is in their own mercy?<br />
They honour not the man, the living man,<br />
The first man who opened His eyes and gazed at the sun<br />
With eyelids unquivering.<br />
Nay, they do not know Him, and they would not be like Him.</p>
<p>                                      *</p>
<p>They would be unknown, walking in the procession of the unknown.<br />
They would bear sorrow, their sorrow,<br />
And they would not find comfort in your joy.<br />
Their aching heart seeks not consolation in your words and the song<br />
thereof.<br />
And their pain, silent and unshapen,<br />
Makes them creatures lonely and unvisited.<br />
Though hemmed about my kin and kind,<br />
They live in fear, uncomraded;<br />
Yet they would not be alone.<br />
They would bend eastward when the west wind blows.</p>
<p>They call you king,<br />
And they would be in your court.<br />
They pronounce you the Messiah,<br />
And they would themselves be anointed with the holy oil.<br />
Yea, they would live upon your life.</p>
<p>Master, Master Singer,<br />
Your tears were like the showers of May,<br />
And your laughter like the waves of the white sea.<br />
When you spoke your words were the far-off whisper of their lips when<br />
those lips should be kindled with fire;<br />
You laughed for the marrow in their bones that was not yet ready for<br />
laughter;<br />
And you wept for their eyes that yet were dry.<br />
Your voice fathered their thoughts and their understanding.<br />
Your voice mothered their words and their breath.</p>
<p>Seven times was I born and seven times have I died,<br />
And now I live again, and I behold you,<br />
The fighter among fighters,<br />
The poet of poets<br />
King above all kings,<br />
A man half-naked with your road-fellows.<br />
Every day the bishop bends down his head<br />
When he pronounces your name.<br />
And every day the beggars say:<br />
“For Jesus’ sake<br />
Give us a penny to buy bread.”<br />
We call upon each other,<br />
But in truth we call upon you,<br />
Like the flood tide in the spring of our want and desire,<br />
And when our autumn comes, like the ebb tide.<br />
High or low, your name is upon our lips,<br />
The Master of infinite compassion.</p>
<p>Master, Master of our lonely hours,<br />
Here and there, betwixt the cradle and the coffin, I meet your silent<br />
brothers,<br />
The free men, unshackled,<br />
Sons of your mother earth and space.<br />
They are like the birds of the sky,<br />
And like the lilies of the field.<br />
They live your life and think your thoughts,<br />
And they echo your song.<br />
But they are empty-handed,<br />
And they are not crucified with the great crucifixion,<br />
And therein is their pain.<br />
The world crucifies them every day,<br />
But only in little ways.<br />
The sky is not shaken,<br />
And the earth travails not with her dead.<br />
They are crucified and there is none to witness their agony.<br />
They turn their face to right and left<br />
And find not one to promise them a station in his kingdom.<br />
Yet they would be crucified again and yet again,<br />
That your God may be their God,<br />
And your Father their Father.</p>
<p>Master, Master Lover,<br />
The Princess awaits your coming in her fragrant chamber,<br />
And the married unmarried woman in her cage;<br />
The harlot who seeks bread in the streets of her shame,<br />
And the nun in her cloister who has no husband;<br />
The childless woman too at her window,<br />
Where frost designs the forest on the pane,<br />
She finds you in that symmetry,<br />
And she would mother you, and be comforted.</p>
<p>Master, Master Poet,<br />
Master of our silent desires,<br />
The heart of the world quivers with the throbbing of your heart,<br />
But it burns not with your song.<br />
The world sits listening to your voice in tranquil delight,<br />
But it rises not from its seat<br />
To scale the ridges of your hills.<br />
Man would dream your dream but he would not wake to your dawn<br />
Which is his greater dream.<br />
He would see with your vision,<br />
But he would not drag his heavy feet to your throne.<br />
Yet many have been enthroned inn your name<br />
And mitred with your power,<br />
And have turned your golden visit<br />
Into crowns for their head and sceptres for their hand.</p>
<p>Master, Master of Light,<br />
Whose eye dwells in the seeking fingers of the blind,<br />
You are still despised and mocked,<br />
A man too weak and infirm to be God,<br />
A God too much man to call forth adoration.<br />
Their mass and their hymn,<br />
Their sacrament and their rosary, are for their imprisoned self.<br />
You are their yet distant self, their far-off cry, and their passion.</p>
<p>But Master, Sky-heart, Knight of our fairer dream,<br />
You do still tread this day;<br />
Nor bows nor spears shall stay your steps.<br />
You walk through all our arrows.<br />
You smile down upon us,<br />
And though you are the youngest of us all<br />
You father us all.</p>
<p>Poet, Singer, Great Heart,<br />
May our God bless your name,<br />
And the womb that held you, and the breasts that gave you milk.<br />
And may God forgive us all.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
