<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-27" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>ELMADAM THE LOGICIAN</h2>
<p><em>Jesus the Outcast</em></p>
<p>You bid me speak of Jesus the Nazarene, and much have I to tell, but the time has not come. Yet whatever I say of Him now is the truth; for all speech is worthless save when it discloses the truth.</p>
<p>Behold a man disorderly, against all order; a mendicant, opposed to all possessions; a drunkard who would only make merry with rogues and castaways.</p>
<p>He was not the proud son of the State, nor was He the protected citizen of the Empire; therefore He had contempt for both State and Empire.</p>
<p>He would live as free and dutiless as the fowls of the air, and for this the hunters brought Him to earth with arrows.</p>
<p>No one shall open the flood gates of his ancestors without drowning. It is the law. And because the Nazarene broke the law, He and His witless followers were brought to naught.</p>
<p>And there lived many others like Him, men who would change the course of our destiny.</p>
<p>They themselves were changed, and they were the losers.</p>
<p>There is a grapeless vine that grows by the city walls. It creeps upward and clings to the stones. Should that vine say in her heart, “With my might and my weight I shall destroy these walls,” what would other plants say? Surely they would laugh at her foolishness.</p>
<p>Now sir, I cannot but laugh at this man and His ill-advised disciples.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
