<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-43" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>EPHRAIM OF JERICHO</h2>
<p><em>The Other Wedding-Feast</em></p>
<p>When he came again to Jericho I sought Him out and said to Him, “Master, on the morrow my son will take a wife. I beg you come to the wedding-feast and do us honour, even as you honoured the wedding at Cana of Galilee.”</p>
<p>And He answered, “It is true that I was once a guest at a wedding-feast, but I shall not be a guest again. I am myself now the Bridegroom.”</p>
<p>And I said, “I entreat you, Master, come to the wedding-feast of my son.”</p>
<p>And He smiled as though He would rebuke me, and said, “Why do you entreat me? Have you not wine enough?”</p>
<p>And I said, “My jugs are full, Master; yet I beseech you, come to my son’s wedding-feast.”</p>
<p>Then He said, “Who knows? I may come, I may surely come, if your heart is an altar in your temple.”</p>
<p>Upon the morrow my son was married, but Jesus came not to the wedding-feast. And though we had many guests, I felt that no one had come.</p>
<p>In very truth, I myself who welcomed the guests, was not there.</p>
<p>Perhaps my heart had not been an altar when I invited Him. Perhaps I desired another miracle.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
