<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-69" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>ANNAS THE HIGH PRIEST</h2>
<p><em>On Jesus the Rabble</em></p>
<p>He was of the rabble, a brigand, a mountebank and a self-trumpeter. He appealed only to the unclean and the disinherited, and for this He had to go the way of all the tainted and the defiled.</p>
<p>He made sport of us and of our laws; He mocked at our honour and jeered at our dignity. He even said He would destroy the temple and desecrate the holy places. He was shameless, and for this He had to die a shameful death.</p>
<p>He was a man from Galilee of the Gentiles, an alien, from the North Country where Adonis and Ashtarte still claim power against Israel and the God of Israel.</p>
<p>He whose tongue halted when He spoke the speech of our prophets was loud and ear-splitting when he spoke the bastard language of the low-born and the vulgar.</p>
<p>What else was there for me but to decree His death?</p>
<p>Am I not a guardian of the temple? Am I not a keeper of the law? Could I have turned my back on Him, saying in all tranquillity: “He is a madman among madmen. Let Him alone to exhaust Himself raving; for the mad and the crazed and those possessed with devils shall be naught in the path of Israel” ?</p>
<p>Could I have been deaf unto Him when he called us liars. hypocrites, wolves, vipers, and the sons of vipers?</p>
<p>Nay I could not be deaf to Him, for He was not a madman. He was self-possessed; and in His big-sounding sanity He denounced and challenged us all.</p>
<p>For this I had Him crucified, and His crucifixion was a signal and warning unto the others who are stamped with the same damned seal.</p>
<p>I know well I have been blamed for this, even by some of the elders in the Sanhedrim. But I was mindful then as I am mindful now, that one man should die for the people rather than the people be led astray by one man.</p>
<p>Jesus was conquered by an enemy from without. I shall see that Judea is not conquered again, by an enemy from within.</p>
<p>No man from the cursed North shall reach our Holy of Holies nor lay His shadow across the Ark of the Covenant.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
