<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-48" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>JONATHAN</h2>
			<p>
				<em>Among the Water-Lilies</em>
			</p>
			<p>Upon a day my beloved and I were rowing upon the lake of sweet waters. And the hills of Lebanon were about us.</p>
			<p>We moved beside the weeping willows, and the reflections of the willows were deep around us.</p>
			<p>And while I steered the boat with an oar, my beloved took her lute and sang thus:</p>
			<p>What flower save the lotus knows the waters and the sun?<br/>
			What heart save the lotus heart shall know both earth and sky?<br/>
			Behold my love, the golden flower that floats ‘twixt deep and high<br/>
			Even as you and I float betwixt a love that has for ever been<br/>
			And shall for ever be.</p>
			<p>Dip your oar, my love,<br/>
			And let me touch my strings.<br/>
			Let us follow the willows, and let us leave not the water-lilies.<br/>
			In Nazareth there lives a Poet, and His heart is like the lotus.<br/>
			He has visited the soul of woman,<br/>
			He knows her thirst is growing out of the waters,<br/>
			And her hunger for the sun, though all her lips are fed.<br/>
			They say He walks in Galilee.<br/>
			I say He is rowing with us.<br/>
			Can you not see His face, my love?<br/>
			Can you not see, where the willow bough and its reflection meet,<br/>
			He is moving as we move?</p>
			<p>Beloved, it is good to know the youth of life.<br/>
			It is good to know its singing joy.<br/>
			Would that you might always have the oar,<br/>
			And I my stringed lute,<br/>
			Where the lotus laughs in the sun,<br/>
			And the willow is dipping to the waters,<br/>
			And His voice is upon my strings.</p>
			<p>Dip your oar, my beloved,<br/>
			And let me touch my strings.<br/>
			There is a Poet in Nazareth<br/>
			Who knows and loves us both.<br/>
			Dip your oar, my lover,<br/>
			And let me touch my strings.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
