<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-70" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>A WOMAN ONE OF MARY’S NEIGHBOURS</h2>
<p>*A Lamentation</p>
<p>On the fortieth day after His death, all the women neighbours came to the house of Mary to console her and to sing threnodies.<br />
And one of the women sang this song:*</p>
<p>Whereto my Spring, whereto?<br />
And to what other space your perfume ascending?<br />
In what other fields shall you walk?<br />
And to what sky shall you lift up your head to speak your heart?</p>
<p>These valleys shall be barren,<br />
And we shall have naught but dried fields and arid.<br />
All green things will parch in the sun,<br />
And our orchards will bring forth sour apples,<br />
And our vineyards bitter grapes.<br />
We shall thirst for your wine,<br />
And our nostrils will long for your fragrance.</p>
<p>Whereto Flower of our first spring., whereto?<br />
And will you return no more?<br />
Will not your jasmine visit us again,<br />
And your cyclamen stand by our wayside<br />
To tell us that we too have our roots deep in earth,<br />
And that our ceaseless breath would forever climb the sky?</p>
<p>Whereto Jesus, whereto,<br />
Son of my neighbour Mary,<br />
And comrade to my son?<br />
Whither, our first Spring, and to what other fields?<br />
Will you return to us again?<br />
Will you in your love-tide visit the barren shores of our dreams?</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
