<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-8" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>JOANNA THE WIFE OF HEROD’S STEWARD</h2>
			<p>
				<em>On Children</em>
			</p>
			<p>Jesus was never married but He was a friend of women, and He knew them as they would be known in sweet comradeship.</p>
			<p>And He loved children as they would be loved in faith and understanding.</p>
			<p>In the light of His eyes there was a father and a brother and a son.</p>
			<p>He would hold a child upon His knees and say, “Of such is your might and your freedom; and of such is the kingdom of the spirit.”</p>
			<p>They say that Jesus heeded not the law of Moses, and that He was over-forgiving to the prostitutes of Jerusalem and the country side.</p>
			<p>I myself at that time was deemed a prostitute, for I loved a man who was not my husband, and he was a Sadducee.</p>
			<p>And on a day the Sadducees came upon me in my house when my lover was with me, and they seized me and held me, and my lover walked away and left me.</p>
			<p>Then they led me to the market-place where Jesus was teaching.</p>
			<p>it was their desire to hold me up before Him as a test and a trap for Him.</p>
			<p>But Jesus judged me not. He laid shame upon those who would have had me shamed, and He reproached them.</p>
			<p>And He bade me go my way.</p>
			<p>And after that all the tasteless fruit of life turned sweet to my mouth, and the scentless blossoms breathed fragrance into my nostrils. I became a woman without a tainted memory, and I was free, and my head was no longer bowed down.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
