<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-73" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>CLAUDIUS A ROMAN SENTINEL</h2>
			<p>
				<em>Jesus the Stoic</em>
			</p>
			<p>After he was taken, they entrusted Him to me. And I was ordered by Pontius Pilatus to keep Him in custody until the following morning.</p>
			<p>My soldiers led Him prisoner, and He was obedient to them.</p>
			<p>At midnight I left my wife and children and visited the arsenal. It was my habit to go about and see all that was well with my battalions in Jerusalem; and that night I visited the arsenal where He was held.</p>
			<p>My soldiers and some of the young Jews were making sport of Him. They had stripped Him of His garment, and they had put a crown of last year’s brier-thorns upon His head.</p>
			<p>They had seated Him against a pillar, and they were dancing and shouting before Him.</p>
			<p>And they had given Him a reed to hold in His hand.</p>
			<p>As I entered someone shouted, “Behold, O Captain, the King of the Jews.”</p>
			<p>I stood before Him and looked at Him, and I was ashamed. I knew not why.</p>
			<p>I had fought in Gallia and in Spain, and with my men I had faced death. Yet never had I been in fear, nor been a coward. But when I stood before that man and He looked at me I lost heart. It seemed as though my lips were sealed, and I could not utter no word.</p>
			<p>And straightway I left the arsenal.</p>
			<p>This chanced thirty years ago. My sons who were babes then are men now. And they are serving Caesar and Rome.</p>
			<p>But often in counselling them I have spoken of Him, a man facing death with the sap of life upon His lips, and with compassion for His slayers in His eyes.</p>
			<p>And now I am old. I have lived the years fully. And I think truly that neither Pompey nor Caesar was so great a commander as that Man of Galilee.</p>
			<p>For since His unresisting death an army has risen out of the earth to fight for Him. . . . And He is better served by them, though dead, than ever Pompey or Caesar was served, though living.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
