<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>L</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-50" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>MANASSEH</h2>
<p><em>On the Speech and Gesture of Jesus</em></p>
<p>Yes, I used to hear Him speak. There was always a ready word upon His lips.</p>
<p>But I admired Him as a man rather than as a leader. He preached something beyond my liking, perhaps beyond my reason. And I would have no man preach to me.</p>
<p>I was taken by His voice and His gestures, not by the substance of His speech. He charmed me but never convinced me; for He was too vague, too distant and obscure to reach my mind.</p>
<p>I have known other men like Him. They are never constant nor are they consistent. It is with eloquence not with principles that they hold your ear and your passing thought, but never the core of your heart.</p>
<p>What a pity that His enemies confronted Him and forced the issue. It was not necessary. I believe their hostility will add to His stature and turn His mildness to power.</p>
<p>For is it not strange that in opposing a man you give Him courage? And in staying His feet you give Him wings?</p>
<p>I know not His enemies, yet I am certain that in their fear of a harmless man they have lent Him strength and made Him dangerous.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
