<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-31" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>A WIDOW IN GALILEE</h2>
			<p>
				<em>Jesus the Cruel</em>
			</p>
			<p>My son was my first and my only born. He laboured in our field and he was contented until he heard the man called Jesus speaking to the multitude.</p>
			<p>Then my son suddenly became different, as if a new spirit, foreign and unwholesome, had embraced his spirit.</p>
			<p>He abandoned the field and the garden; and he abandoned me also. He became worthless, a creature of the highways.</p>
			<p>That man Jesus of Nazareth was evil, for what good man would separate a son from his mother?</p>
			<p>The last thing my child said to me was this: “I am going with one of His disciples to the North Country. My life is established upon the Nazarene. You have given me birth, and for that I am grateful to you. But I needs must go. Am I not leaving with you our rich land, and all our silver and gold? I shall take naught but this garment and this staff.”</p>
			<p>Thus my son spoke, and departed.</p>
			<p>And now the Romans and the priests have laid hold upon Jesus and crucified Him; and they have done well.</p>
			<p>A man who would part mother and son could not be godly.</p>
			<p>The man who sends our children to the cities of the Gentiles cannot be our friend.</p>
			<p>I know my son will not return to me. I saw it in his eyes. And for this I hate Jesus of Nazareth who caused me to be alone in this unploughed field and this withered garden.</p>
			<p>And I hate all those who praise Him.</p>
			<p>Not many days ago they told me that Jesus once said, “My father and my mother and my brethren are those who hear my word and follow me.”</p>
			<p>But why should sons leave their mothers to follow His footsteps?</p>
			<p>And why should the milk of my breast be forgotten for a fountain not yet tasted? And the warmth of my arms be forsaken for the Northland, cold and unfriendly?</p>
			<p>Aye, I hate the Nazarene, and I shall hate Him to the end of my days, for He has robbed me of my first-born, my only son.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
