<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chapter-59" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>JOHN AT PATMOS</h2>
<p><em>Jesus the Gracious</em></p>
<p>Once more I would speak of Him.</p>
<p>God gave me the voice and the burning lips though not the speech.</p>
<p>And unworthy am I for the fuller word, yet I would summon my heart to my lips.</p>
<p>Jesus loved me and I knew not why.</p>
<p>And I loved Him because He quickened my spirit to heights beyond my stature, and to depths beyond my sounding.</p>
<p>Love is a sacred mystery.</p>
<p>To those who love, it remains forever wordless;</p>
<p>But to those who do not love, it may be but a heartless jest.</p>
<p>Jesus called me and my brother when we were labouring in the field.</p>
<p>I was young then and only the voice of dawn had visited my ears.</p>
<p>But His voice and the trumpet of His voice was the end of my labour and the beginning of my passion.</p>
<p>And there were naught for me then but to walk in the sun and worship the loveliness of the hour.</p>
<p>Could you conceive a majesty too kind to be majestic? And a beauty too radiant to seem beautiful?</p>
<p>Could you hear in your dreams a voice shy of its own rapture?</p>
<p>He called me and I followed Him.</p>
<p>That evening I returned to my father’s house to get my other cloak.</p>
<p>And I said to my mother, “Jesus of Nazareth would have me in His company.”</p>
<p>And she said, “Go His way my son, even like your brother.”</p>
<p>And I accompanied Him.</p>
<p>His fragrance called me and commanded me, but only to release me.</p>
<p>Love is a gracious host to his guests though to the unbidden his house is a mirage and a mockery.</p>
<p>Now you would have me explain the miracles of Jesus.</p>
<p>We are all the miraculous gesture of the moment; our Lord and Master was the centre of that moment.</p>
<p>Yet it was not in His desire that His gestures be known.</p>
<p>I have heard Him say to the lame, “Rise and go home, but say not to the priest that I have made you whole.”</p>
<p>And Jesus’ mind was not with the cripple; it was rather with the strong and the upright.</p>
<p>His mind sought and held other minds and His complete spirit visited other spirits.</p>
<p>And is so doing His spirit changed these minds and these spirits.</p>
<p>It seemed miraculous, but with our Lord and Master it was simply like breathing the air of every day.</p>
<p>And now let me speak of other things.</p>
<p>On a day when He and I were alone walking in a field, we were both hungry, and we came to a wild apple tree.</p>
<p>There were only two apples hanging on the bough.</p>
<p>And He held the trunk of the tree with His arm and shook it, and the two apples fell down.</p>
<p>He picked them both up and gave one to me. The other He held in His hand.</p>
<p>In my hunger I ate the apple, and I ate it fast.</p>
<p>Then I looked at Him and I saw that He still held the other apple in His hand.</p>
<p>And He gave it to me saying, “Eat this also.”</p>
<p>And I took the apple, and in my shameless hunger I ate it.</p>
<p>And as we walked on I looked upon His face.</p>
<p>But how shall I tell you of what I saw?</p>
<p>      A night where candles burn in space,<br />
      A dream beyond our reaching;<br />
      A noon where all shepherds are at peace and happy that their flock are grazing;<br />
      An eventide, and a stillness, and a homecoming;<br />
      Then a sleep and a dream.<br />
      All these things I saw in His face.</p>
<p>He had given me the two apples. And I knew He was hungry even as I was hungry.</p>
<p>But I now know that in giving them to me He had been satisfied. He Himself ate of other fruit from another tree.</p>
<p>I would tell you more of Him, but how shall I?</p>
<p>When love becomes vast love becomes wordless.</p>
<p>And when memory is overladen it seeks the silent deep.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
