<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Cleopas of Bethroune</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="cleopas-of-bethroune" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Cleopas of Bethroune</h2>
			<p>When Jesus spoke the whole world was hushed to listen. His words were not for our ears but rather for the elements of which God made this earth.</p>
			<p>He spoke to the sea, our vast mother, that gave us birth. He spoke to the mountain, our elder brother whose summit is a promise.</p>
			<p>And He spoke to the angels beyond the sea and the mountain to whom we entrusted our dreams ere the clay in us was made hard in the sun.</p>
			<p>And still His speech slumbers within our breast like a love-song half forgotten, and sometimes it burns itself through to our memory.</p>
			<p>His speech was simple and joyous, and the sound of His voice was like cool water in a land of drought.</p>
			<p>Once He raised His hand against the sky, and His fingers were like the branches of a sycamore tree; and He said with a great voice:</p>
			<p>“The prophets of old have spoken to you, and your ears are filled with their speech. But I say unto you, empty your ears of what you have heard.”</p>
			<p>And these words of Jesus, “<em>But I say unto you</em>,” were not uttered by a man of our race nor of our world; but rather by a host of seraphim marching across the sky of Judea.</p>
			<p>Again and yet again He would quote the law and the prophets, and then he would say: “<em>But I say unto you.</em>”</p>
			<p>Oh, what burning words, what waves of seas unknown to the shores of our mind: “<em>But I say unto you</em>”!</p>
			<p>What stars seeking the darkness of the soul, and what sleepless souls awaiting the dawn.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>To tell of the speech of Jesus one must needs have His speech or the echo thereof.</p>
			<p>I have neither the speech nor the echo.</p>
			<p>I beg you to forgive me for beginning a story that I cannot end. But the end is not yet upon my lips. It is still a love-song in the wind.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
