<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="jonathan" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jonathan</h2>
			<p>Upon a day my belovèd and I were rowing upon the lake of sweet waters. And the hills of Lebanon were about us.</p>
			<p>We moved beside the weeping willows, and the reflections of the willows were deep around us.</p>
			<p>And while I steered the boat with an oar, my belovèd took her lute and sang thus:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p>
					<span>What flower save the lotus knows the waters and the sun?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What heart save the lotus heart shall know both earth and sky?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold my love, the golden flower that floats ’twixt deep and high</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even as you and I float betwixt a love that has forever been</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shall forever be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dip your oar, my love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let me touch my strings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let us follow the willows, and let us leave not the water-lilies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In Nazareth there lives a Poet, and His heart is like the lotus.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has visited the soul of woman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He knows her thirst is growing out of the waters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her hunger for the sun, though all her lips are fed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say He walks in Galilee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I say He is rowing with us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can you not see His face, my love?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can you not see, where the willow bough and its reflection meet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He is moving as we move?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Belovèd, it is good to know the youth of life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is good to know its singing joy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would that you might always have the oar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I my stringèd lute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the lotus laughs in the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the willow is dipping to the waters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And His voice is upon my strings.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dip your oar, my belovèd,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let me touch my strings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is a Poet in Nazareth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knows and loves us both.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dip your oar, my lover,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let me touch my strings.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
