<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Jotham of Nazareth, to a Roman</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="jotham-of-nazareth-to-a-roman" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jotham of Nazareth, to a Roman</h2>
			<p>My friend, you like all other Romans would conceive life rather than live it. You would rule lands rather than be ruled by the spirit.</p>
			<p>You would conquer races and be cursed by them rather than stay in Rome and be blest and happy.</p>
			<p>You think but of armies marching and of ships launched into the sea.</p>
			<p>How shall you then understand Jesus of Nazareth, a man simple and alone, who came without armies or ships, to establish a kingdom in the heart and an empire in the free spaces of the soul?</p>
			<p>How shall you understand the man who was not a warrior, but who came with the power of the mighty ether?</p>
			<p>He was not a god, He was a man like unto ourselves; but in Him the myrrh of the earth rose to meet the frankincense of the sky; and in His words our lisping embraced the whispering of the unseen; and in His voice we heard a song unfathomable.</p>
			<p>Aye, Jesus was a man and not a god, and therein lies our wonder and our surprise.</p>
			<p>But you Romans wonder not save at the gods, and no man shall surprise you. Therefore you understand not the Nazarene.</p>
			<p>He belonged to the youth of the mind and you belong to its old age.</p>
			<p>You govern us today; but let us wait another day.</p>
			<p>Who knows that this man with neither armies nor ships shall govern tomorrow?</p>
			<p>We who follow the spirit shall sweat blood while journeying after Him. But Rome shall lie a white skeleton in the sun.</p>
			<p>We shall suffer much, yet we shall endure and we shall live. But Rome must needs fall into the dust.</p>
			<p>Yet if Rome, when humbled and made low, shall pronounce His name, He will heed her voice. And He will breathe new life into her bones that she may rise again, a city among the cities of the earth.</p>
			<p>But this He shall do without legions, nor with slaves to oar His galleys. He will be alone.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
