<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Mary Magdalene</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="mary-magdalene-2" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mary Magdalene</h2>
			<p>His mouth was like the heart of a pomegranate, and the shadows in His eyes were deep.</p>
			<p>And He was gentle, like a man mindful of his own strength.</p>
			<p>In my dreams I beheld the kings of the earth standing in awe in His presence.</p>
			<p>I would speak of His face, but how shall I?</p>
			<p>It was like night without darkness, and like day without the noise of day.</p>
			<p>It was a sad face, and it was a joyous face.</p>
			<p>And well I remember how once He raised His hand towards the sky, and His parted fingers were like the branches of an elm.</p>
			<p>And I remember Him pacing the evening. He was not walking. He Himself was a road above the road; even as a cloud above the earth that would descend to refresh the earth.</p>
			<p>But when I stood before Him and spoke to him, He was a man, and His face was powerful to behold. And He said to me: “What would you, Miriam?”</p>
			<p>I would not answer Him, but my wings enfolded my secret, and I was made warm.</p>
			<p>And because I could bear His light no more, I turned and walked away, but not in shame. I was only shy, and I would be alone, with His fingers upon the strings of my heart.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
