<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Mary Magdalen</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="mary-magdalene-3" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Mary Magdalen</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Thirty Years Later</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Once again I say that with death Jesus conquered death, and rose from the grave a spirit and a power. And He walked in our solitude and visited the gardens of our passion.</p>
			<p>He lies not there in that cleft rock behind the stone.</p>
			<p>We who love Him beheld Him with these our eyes which He made to see; and we touched Him with these our hands which He taught to reach forth.</p>
			<p>I know you who believe not in Him. I was one of you, and you are many; but your number shall be diminished.</p>
			<p>Must your break your harp and your lyre to find the music therein?</p>
			<p>Or must you fell a tree ere you can believe it bears fruit?</p>
			<p>You hate Jesus because someone from the North Country said He was the Son of God. But you hate one another because each of you deems himself too great to be the brother of the next man.</p>
			<p>You hate Him because someone said He was born of a virgin, and not of man’s seed.</p>
			<p>But you know not the mothers who go to the tomb in virginity, nor the men who go down to the grave choked with their own thirst.</p>
			<p>You know not that the earth was given in marriage to the sun, and that earth it is who sends us forth to the mountain and the desert.</p>
			<p>There is a gulf that yawns between those who love Him and those who hate Him, between those who believe and those who do not believe.</p>
			<p>But when the years have bridged that gulf you shall know that He who lived in us is deathless, that He was the Son of God even as we are the children of God; that He was born of a virgin even as we are born of the husbandless earth.</p>
			<p>It is passing strange that the earth gives not to the unbelievers the roots that would suck at her breast, nor the wings wherewith to fly high and drink, and be filled with the dews of her space.</p>
			<p>But I know what I know, and it is enough.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
