<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Nathaniel</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="nathaniel" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Nathaniel</h2>
			<p>They say that Jesus of Nazareth was humble and meek.</p>
			<p>They say that though He was a just man and righteous, He was a weakling, and was often confounded by the strong and the powerful; and that when He stood before men of authority He was but a lamb among lions.</p>
			<p>But I say Jesus had authority over men, and that He knew His power and proclaimed it among the hills of Galilee, and in the cities of Judea and Phoenicia.</p>
			<p>What man yielding and soft would say: “I am life, and I am the way to truth”?</p>
			<p>What man meek and lowly would say: “I am in God, our Father; and our God, the Father, is in me”?</p>
			<p>What man unmindful of His own strength would say: “He who believes not in me believes not in this life nor in the life everlasting”?</p>
			<p>What man uncertain of tomorrow would proclaim: “Your world shall pass away and be naught but scattered ashes ere my words shall pass away”?</p>
			<p>Was He doubtful of Himself when He said to those who would confound Him with a harlot: “He who is without sin, let him cast a stone”?</p>
			<p>Did He fear authority when He drove the money-changers from the court of the temple, though they were licensed by the priests?</p>
			<p>Were His wings shorn when He cried aloud: “My kingdom is above your earthly kingdoms”?</p>
			<p>Was He seeking shelter in words when He repeated again and yet again: “Destroy this temple and I will rebuild it in three days”?</p>
			<p>Was it a coward who shook His hand in the face of the authorities and pronounced them “liars, low, filthy, and degenerate”?</p>
			<p>Shall a man bold enough to say these things to those who ruled Judea be deemed meek and humble?</p>
			<p>Nay. The eagle builds not his nest in the weeping willow. And the lion seeks not his den among the ferns.</p>
			<p>I am sickened and the bowels within me stir and rise when I hear the fainthearted call Jesus humble and meek, that they may justify their own faintheartedness; and when the downtrodden, for comfort and companionship, speak of Jesus as a worm shining by their side.</p>
			<p>Yea, my heart is sickened by such men. It is the mighty hunter I would preach, and the mountainous spirit unconquerable.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
