<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Peter</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="peter-2" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Peter</h2>
			<p>Once in Capernaum my Lord and Master spoke thus:</p>
			<p>“Your neighbour is your other self dwelling behind a wall. In understanding, all walls shall fall down.</p>
			<p>“Who knows but that your neighbour is your better self wearing another body? See that you love him as you would love yourself.</p>
			<p>“He too is a manifestation of the Most High, whom you do not know.</p>
			<p>“Your neighbour is a field where the springs of your hope walk in their green garments, and where the winters of your desire dream of snowy heights.</p>
			<p>“Your neighbour is a mirror wherein you shall behold your countenance made beautiful by a joy which you yourself if not know, and by a sorrow you yourself did not share.</p>
			<p>“I would have you love your neighbour even as I have loved you.”</p>
			<p>Then I asked Him saying: “How can I love a neighbour who loves me not, and who covets my property? One who would steal my possessions?”</p>
			<p>And He answered: “When you are ploughing and your manservant is sowing the seed behind you, would you stop and look backward and put to flight a sparrow feeding upon a few of your seeds? Should you do this, you were not worthy of the riches of your harvest.”</p>
			<p>When Jesus had said this, I was ashamed and I was silent. But I was not in fear, for He smiled upon me.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
