<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="philip" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Philip</h2>
			<p>When our Belovèd died, all mankind died and all things for a space were still and grey. Then the east was darkened, and a tempest rushed out of it and swept the land. The eyes of the sky opened and shut, and the rain came down in torrents and carried away the blood that streamed from His hands and His feet.</p>
			<p>I too died. But in the depth of my oblivion I heard Him speak and say, “Father forgive them, for they know not what they do.”</p>
			<p>And His voice sought my drowned spirit and I was brought back to the shore.</p>
			<p>And I opened my eyes and I saw His white body hanging against the cloud, and His words that I had heard took the shape within me and became a new man. And I sorrowed no more.</p>
			<p>Who would sorrow for a sea that is unveiling its face, or for a mountain that laughs in the sun?</p>
			<p>Was it ever in the heart of man, when that heart was pierced, to say such words?</p>
			<p>What other judge of men has released His judges? And did ever love challenge hate with power more certain of itself?</p>
			<p>Was ever such a trumpet heard ’twixt heaven and earth?</p>
			<p>Was it known before that the murdered had compassion on his murderers? Or that the meteor stayed his footsteps for the mole?</p>
			<p>The seasons shall tire and the years grow old, ere they exhaust these words: “Father forgive them, for they know not what they do.”</p>
			<p>And you and I, though born again and again, shall keep them.</p>
			<p>And now I would go into my house, and stand an exalted beggar, at His door.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
