<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Phumiah, the High Priestess of Sidon</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="phumiah-the-high-priestess-of-sidon" epub:type="se:short-story z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Phumiah, the High Priestess of Sidon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Take your harps and let me sing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beat your strings, the silver and the gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I would sing the dauntless Man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who slew the dragon of the valley,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then gazed down with pity</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the thing He had slain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Take your harps and sing with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lofty Oak upon the height,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sky-hearted and the ocean-handed Man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who kissed the pallid lips of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet quivers now upon the mouth of life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Take your harps and let us sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fearless Hunter on the hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who marked the beast, and shot His viewless arrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And brought the horn and tusk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down to the earth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Take your harps and sing with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The valiant Youth who conquered the mountain cities,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the cities of the plain that coiled like serpents in the sand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He fought not against pygmies but against gods</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who hungered for our flesh and thirsted for our blood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And like the first Golden Hawk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He would rival only eagles;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For His wings were vast and proud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And would not outwing the less wingèd.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Take your harps and sing with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The joyous song of sea and cliff.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gods are dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they are lying still</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the forgotten isle of a forgotten sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And He who slew them sits upon His throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He was but a youth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spring had not yet given Him full beard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And His summer was still young in His field.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Take your harps and sing with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tempest in the forest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That breaks the dry branch and the leafless twig,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet sends the living root to nestle deeper at the breast of earth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Take your harps and sing with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The deathless song of our Belovèd.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nay, my maidens, stay your hands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay by your harps.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We cannot sing Him now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The faint whisper of our song cannot reach His tempest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor pierce the majesty of His silence.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lay by your harps and gather close around me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would repeat His words to you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I would tell you of His deeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the echo of His voice is deeper than our passion.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
