<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Salome, to a Woman Friend</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="salome-to-a-woman-friend" epub:type="se:short-story z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Salome, to a Woman Friend</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He was like poplars shimmering in the sun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like a lake among the lonely hills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shining in the sun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like snow upon the mountain heights,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>White, white in the sun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yea, He was like unto all these,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I loved Him.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet I feared His presence.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my feet would not carry my burden of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I might girdle His feet with my arms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I would have said to Him:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I have slain your friend in an hour of passion.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will you forgive me my sin?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And will you not in mercy release my youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From its blind deed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That it may walk in your light?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I know He would have forgiven my dancing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the saintly head of His friend.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know He would have seen in me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An object of His own teaching.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there was no valley of hunger He could not bridge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no desert of thirst He could not cross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yea, He was even as the poplars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as the lakes among the hills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like snow upon Lebanon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I would have cooled my lips in the folds of His garment.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But He was far from me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I was ashamed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my mother held me back</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the desire to seek Him was upon me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Whenever He passed by, my heart ached for his loveliness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But my mother frowned at Him in contempt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And would hasten me from the window</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To my bedchamber.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she would cry aloud, saying:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Who is He but another locust-eater from the desert?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“What is He but a scoffer and a renegade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A seditious riot-monger, who would rob us of sceptre and crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bid the foxes and the jackals of His accursèd land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Howl in our halls and sit upon our throne?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go hide your face from this day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And await the day when His head shall fall down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But not upon your platter.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These things my mother said.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But my heart would not keep her words.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I loved Him in secret,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my sleep was girdled with flames.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He is gone now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And something that was in me is gone also.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps it was my youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That would not tarry here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since the God of youth was slain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
