<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Sarkis, an Old Greek Shepherd, Called the Madman</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="sarkis-an-old-greek-shepherd-called-the-madman" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sarkis, an Old Greek Shepherd, Called the Madman</h2>
			<p>In a dream I saw Jesus and My God Pan sitting together in the heart of the forest.</p>
			<p>They laughed at each other’s speech, with the brook that ran near them, and the laughter of Jesus was the merrier. And they conversed long.</p>
			<p>Pan spoke of earth and her secrets, and of his hoofed brothers and his horned sisters; and of dreams. And he spoke of roots and their nestlings, and of the sap that wakes and rises and sings to summer.</p>
			<p>And Jesus told of the young shoots in the forest, and of flowers and fruit, and the seed that they shall bear in a season not yet come.</p>
			<p>He spoke of birds in space and their singing in the upper world.</p>
			<p>And He told of white harts in the desert wherein God shepherds them.</p>
			<p>And Pan was pleased with the speech of the new God, and his nostrils quivered.</p>
			<p>And in the same dream I beheld Pan and Jesus grow quiet and still in the stillness of the green shadows.</p>
			<p>And then Pan took his reeds and played to Jesus.</p>
			<p>The trees were shaken and the ferns trembled, and there was a fear upon me.</p>
			<p>And Jesus said, “Good brother, you have the glade and the rocky height in your reeds.”</p>
			<p>Then Pan gave the reeds to Jesus and said, “You play now. It is your turn.”</p>
			<p>And Jesus said, “These reeds are too many for my mouth. I have this flute.”</p>
			<p>And He took His flute and He played.</p>
			<p>And I heard the sound of rain in the leaves, and the singing of streams among the hills, and the falling of snow on the mountaintop.</p>
			<p>The pulse of my heart, that had once beaten with the wind, was restored again to the wind, and all the waves of my yesterdays were upon my shore, and I was again Sarkis the shepherd, and the flute of Jesus became the pipes of countless shepherds calling to countless flocks.</p>
			<p>Then Pan said to Jesus, “Your youth is more kin to the reed than my years. And long ere this in my stillness I have heard your song and the murmur of your name.</p>
			<p>“Your name has a goodly sound; well shall it rise with the sap to the branches, and well shall it run with the hoofs among the hills.</p>
			<p>“And it is not strange to me, though my father called me not by that name. It was your flute that brought it back to my memory.</p>
			<p>“And now let us play our reeds together.”</p>
			<p>And they played together.</p>
			<p>And their music smote heaven and earth, and a terror struck all living things.</p>
			<p>I heard the bellow of beasts and the hunger of the forest. And I heard the cry of lonely men, and the plaint of those who long for what they know not.</p>
			<p>I heard the sighing of the maiden for her lover, and the panting of the luckless hunter for his prey.</p>
			<p>And then there came peace into their music, and the heavens and the earth sang together.</p>
			<p>All this I saw in my dream, and all this I heard.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
