<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>The Woman of Byblos</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-woman-of-byblos" epub:type="se:short-story z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Woman of Byblos</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Weep with me, ye daughters of Ashtarte, and all ye lovers of Tamouz.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bid your heart melt and rise and run blood-tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For He who was made of gold and ivory is no more.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dark forest the boar overcame Him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the tusks of the boar pierced His flesh.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now He lies stained with the leaves of yesteryear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no longer shall His footsteps wake the seeds that sleep in the bosom of the spring.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His voice will not come with the dawn to my window,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I shall be forever alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Weep with me, ye daughters of Ashtarte, and all ye lovers of Tamouz,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For my Belovèd has escaped me;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He who spoke as the rivers speak;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He whose voice and time were twins;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He whose mouth was a red pain made sweet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He on whose lips gall would turn to honey.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Weep with me, daughters of Ashtarte, and ye lovers of Tamouz.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weep with me around His bier as the stars weep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as the moon-petals fall upon His wounded body.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wet with your tears the silken covers of my bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where my Belovèd once lay in my dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And was gone away in my awakening.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I charge ye, daughters of Ashtarte, and all ye lovers of Tamouz,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bare your breasts and weep and comfort me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Jesus of Nazareth is dead.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
