<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Thomas</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="thomas" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thomas</h2>
			<p>My grandfather who was a lawyer once said, “Let us observe truth, but only when truth is made manifest unto us.”</p>
			<p>When Jesus called me I heeded Him, for His command was more potent than my will; yet I kept my counsel.</p>
			<p>When He spoke and the others were swayed like branches in the wind, I listened immovable. Yet I loved Him.</p>
			<p>Three years ago He left us, a scattered company to sing His name, and to be His witnesses unto the nations.</p>
			<p>At that time I was called Thomas the Doubter. The shadow of my grandfather was still upon me, and always I would have truth made manifest.</p>
			<p>I would even put my hand in my own wound to feel the blood ere I would believe in my pain.</p>
			<p>Now a man who loves with his heart yet holds a doubt in his mind, is but a slave in a galley who sleeps at his oar and dreams of his freedom, till the lash of the master wakes him.</p>
			<p>I myself was that slave, and I dreamed of freedom, but the sleep of my grandfather was upon me. My flesh needed the whip of my own day.</p>
			<p>Even in the presence of the Nazarene I had closed my eyes to see my hands chained to the oar.</p>
			<p>Doubt is a pain too lonely to know that faith is his twin brother.</p>
			<p>Doubt is a foundling unhappy and astray, and though his own mother who gave him birth should find him and enfold him, he would withdraw in caution and in fear.</p>
			<p>For Doubt will not know truth till his wounds are healed and restored.</p>
			<p>I doubted Jesus until He made Himself manifest to me, and thrust my own hand into His very wounds.</p>
			<p>Then indeed I believed, and after that I was rid of my yesterday and the yesterdays of my forefathers.</p>
			<p>The dead in me buried their dead; and the living shall live for the Anointed King, even for Him who was the Son of Man.</p>
			<p>Yesterday they told me that I must go and utter His name among the Persians and the Hindus.</p>
			<p>I shall go. And from this day to my last day, at dawn and at eventide, I shall see my Lord rising in majesty and I shall hear Him speak.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
